Term 1:

28/09/23 ~ Week 1: This week I have dabbled into learning pddl, chose a topic to model and write my plan with, which was aviation planning related, and I have finished my first draft abstract.

04/10/23 ~ Week 2: I have changed topics from aviation to exploration planning, researched about exploration planning, rewrote the abstract and finished the project plan.

12/10/23 ~ Week 3: Started experimenting with the existing pddl models online, started on my own exploration domain, created a unit test on a move left action and a simple plan. 

20/10/23 ~ Week 4: Had a meeting with Dr. Santiago yesterday for some guidance on my current progress and was given a reality check. Changed my approach on how I was modelling and now started to get good progress going. I aim to have a solid PDDL basis by the end of next week.

26/10/23 ~ Week 5: A busy week but I got a decent amount of work in, currently struggling on a final problem in PDDL before I switch to doing a bit of GDDL (which I plan on starting tomorrow) to get more progress done. Unfortunately I believe its just the limitations of PDDL, but I might be wrong. Will try to figure this out by the weekend or ill have to bring this up in my meeting I have booked for next tuesday.

01/11/23 ~ Week 6: Had another meeting with my supervisor yesterday. We talked about my project plan for a bit and had a discussion about how my end product should look. I raised my concerns about the project which were answered pretty well. I decided to drop GDDL and focus on creating a high level functioning path planning problem in a game environment. He also gave me some tips on how to write complex problems to test my code using python. My progress so far is pretty good.

06/11/23 ~ Week 7: I have not done much the past week unfortunately. Was busy with my other modules and found that I had close to no time for this project. I did do some research on fastdownward though and brainstormed some ideas to make this path planning problem a bit more complex. I plan to get a lot finished by the end of this week.

15/11/23 ~ Week 8: I have indeed finished a lot of work from my last entry in the diary. Most, if not all of my necessary actions are complete. I have prepared counts so I can try different search algorithms on my plans soon with fastdownward. All that is left is for me to create exhaustive plans to test all of my features together, which I shall generate through python. I have also commented most of my code and further refactored it. I will be doing this before the start of next week, so I can focus on interim report/presentation for the last 2 weeks.

19/11/23 ~ Week 8: I have scrapped the idea of using python to create a plan, due to me feeling it being less efficient with my time at this point in time. I have indeed created a plan that covers every part of my explorer so far, which I have thought meticulously through. Realised that it there were some oversights with my actions so I fixed them. I also tried to install FastDownward to start testing for optimal solutions for my plans but currently running into many errors both on nomachine and windows. Will contact my supervisor about it before starting my interim report!

24/11/23 ~ Week 9: I have contacted my supervisor, which he gave me a detailed answer on how to run it on nomachine. I have started testing by minimising costs with fastdownward and have also started writing my interim report.

31/11/23 ~ Week 10: Completed Interim report, completed any tests, only have presentation to do and create the video. 

Term 2:

20/01/24 ~ Week 1: I received my interim results this week, which I have started implementing some of the changes mentioned in the feedback. I have started creating unit tests for past problems, looked into problem generators using templates and updated my README file. I have booked a meeting with my supervisor next week thursday to get a start with creating domain specific heuristics, but for now my plan is to incorporate all the feedback I have received as well as add more content with the problem generator.

23/01/24 ~ Week 2: I decided to finish most of the feedback such as removing excess disjunctive preconditions by implementing template generated problems. This will solve the need to the need to use a disjunctive precondition for connected blocks. I havent yet removed it from the domain however as ill try to focus on that when I add more content to the domain later down the road. This is just in preperation for my meeting with my supervisor this thursday.

25/01/24 ~ Week 2: Ive just finished my much needed meeting wth supervisor on how much I need to do. I took adequate notes and will start my research phase on optimality as well as ways to implement an A* search algorithm using a domain specific heuristic. I was recommended to research landmark heuristics mostly!

30/01/24 ~ Week 3: I finished all the templates for the problems I have so far and since how ive implemented both the template & tests, as well as the troubles and limitations of both are still fresh in my mind, I chose to write them down in detail on the specifics to make it easier for me later on to recall them. I also went back to second years AI module to refresh my brain on search algorithms specifically on A* and the logic behind it. I also have done some research on landmark heuristic but I found it difficult to comprehend as of now, by comprehend I dont mean the concept but how I would actually be implementing. Maybe its just me not actually starting the implementation of A* so I assume with time it will be clearer.

03/02/24 ~ Week 3: I started writing A* search algorithm, I was having a difficult time choosing between either python or java, but since I wanted to follow a TDD method and was already familiar with Junit I decided to go with Java. I am not sure if compiled language would be much of a performance boost in contrast to an interpreted language, but I mean why not do what im comfortable with. 

08/02/24 ~ Week 4: I have gotten a good amount of the algorithm completed. Nothing else has been my focus really, I did look for more resources regarding landmark heuristic but I decided ill give it a full go once I get my algorithm completed a bit. I plan to by the weekend and start trying to change the heuristic from distance to goal based to amount of unfinished landmarks based. This also allows me to email my supervisor if I get lost throughout the weekend on how I should implement.

10/02/24 ~ Week 4: It turns out landmarks are not as easy as I thought, the resources I found go deep into planning theory about content I do not know or understand. The method of implementing also seems like a mystery. I have finished the A* star implementation and all I have is adding tests hopefully by monday and will contact supervisor to book a meeting, to help clear all the problems.

12/02/24 ~ Week 5: I e-mailed my supervisor to book a meeting today, I also further optimised by A* implementation but decided to keep the manhattan distance as heuristic for now. The algorithm works as expected with blocked nodes as well.

14/02/24 ~ Week 5: My supervisor responded yesterday, making our meeting at 1pm on friday. Currently writing down a list of questions to ask him on friday to make use of all the time we have.

16/02/24 ~ Week 5: Before my meeting at 10 today, my supervisor sent me very useful resources regarding a software engineering tool used to aid domain-specific heuristics called causal graphs, which he spoke in further detail in the meeting. He also sent me an example for me to look through which was linked to the slides. In the meeting he assisted me with breaking down how I should think with this different approach, as I need to check what actions are possible in every state and use a success generator to find other states. Casual graphs will help me break down what actions/preconditions cause other actions/preconditions.

20/02/24 ~ Week 6: I have created many causal graphs that cover most of my domain, this will be useful in my software engineering section in the report.

24/02/24 ~ Week 6: Some extenuating circumstances have occured and with not being in the mindset nor have the time to actually do much work while juggling other modules, I decided to plan the report for now. Created a rough outline for how the report will be, rechecked what the final deliverables are and collected all the information I learnt into a document to later use.

26/02/24 ~ Week 7: With not much time on my hands, I decided to comment on my current code and document it as it is one of the requirements for the final deliverables, so might as well get it out of the way right now.

01/03/24 ~ Week 7: Even though my supervisor has explained to me success generators and how it works, I still find it difficult to understand where I should start. Instead of wasting time trying to figure it out, I went with a mentality of "I will just figure this out as I work along". Basically I started hard coding my PDDL domain into java, started with creating java enums and classes representing actions, objects and predicates in the form of states.

10/03/24 ~ Week 8: I continued working on new actions in the action class and started editing the A* class to now add states to handle. Realised I can just have the success generator all in that class. Since I am so behind because of some unavoidable circumstances that have occured, ill contact my supervisor to give me feedback on my work soon. It might give me new ideas on how to salvage the project.

13/03/24 ~ Week 9: On Monday I contacted my supervisor to book a meeting. Really need it right now. I have been updating my A* class but im running into many issues, and I cant even commit parts because editing it makes the entire class be full of errors. The meeting is booked for next week monday, so I have 1 week to try my best in salvaging the project. I also need to start thinking more about my report, but I think I can do most of it the last 2 weeks.

16/03/24 ~ Week 9: I have finished a prototype of the state update in the A* class. It now allows movements depending on state, with changes to how ill be calculating the heuristic cost. I am still running into many issues regarding other actions but its a step in the right direction. I also planned created the layout of the report.

19/03/24 ~ Week 10: Yesterday I talked with my supervisor and to my surprise, I guess I wasnt too behind. He also gave me some recommendations which were much needed to the direction my project will go. For today I completed pick up action on my Astar class, what ill do for now is refactor and comment, merge with main and create a release branch with this much. That will allow me to focus on editing the class in another branch and creating another way of calculating the heuristic so I can compare the 2 for my report.

22/03/24 ~ Week 10: During the final stretch of the project so I have started writing the report. Basically creating a list of what each section should cover while also writing the introduction. I did plan to add an interface to the algorithm but I havent figured that out yet. By I am documenting the code and refactoring to make sure everything looks good.

28/03/24 ~ Week 11: Created a release branch for my first release, tagged it and shipped it. This means I can now focus on other features such as trying another method to calculate heuristic and creating an interface. For the interface I decided on a way to visualise the algorithm and highlight its section.

31/03/24 ~ Week 11: Created my second release that incorporated a GUI feature, essentially visualising the path the algorithm takes step by step. I have also been slowly continuing my report.

01/04/24 ~ Week 12: The term has ended but I took an extension due to reasons that left me behind. I have created a third release branch and changed the method of calculating heuristic from pattern database to more landmark, tho I am not sure if it actually follows the landmark heuristic. All I have left is finishing the report and refactoring parts of the code.